- You told them about the money?
- I did what I had to do.
You didn't leave me a choice!
You had a choice. to do what I told you
to do and leave it alone.
I don't take my orders from you.
You have no idea how much worse
you've made this. Hutton.
Is that some sort of threat?
I'm hit!
- Oh. God! I'm hit!
- Hold on!
Get us out of here!
Minesweep. This is Minesweep One.
We are under attack.
Three clicks north of Al-Jahra.
Hutton. get down!
This is Minesweeper One.
Lieutenant Harold Cooper. We are under fire.
Repeat. Lieutenant Harold Cooper.
Minesweeper One. We are under attack.
Hang on. Hutton. Hold on.
Well. what do you think? Great. right?
She has a lot of experience.
Yeah. All her references raved about her.
We're meeting this afternoon.
but I have a good feeling about her.
Looks like you found yourself a nanny.
Which is a huge relief. I mean.
it's impossible to find someone great.
I wouldn't know.
Have you reached out to her yet.
to your daughter?
I haven't worked up the courage yet.
You should just do it.
I put her through some dark times.
Have you noticed the men
parked across the street every day?
Every night?
I thought so. but I wasn't sure.
They're there for my protection.
Yours? Why?
Who do you need protection from?
- My mother.
- No. That can't be true.
Trust me. whatever pushed you
and your daughter apart.
it's nothing compared to what
me and my mother have gone through.
Just call her. I'm sure she'd appreciate it.
- Would you. if your mother called you?
- It doesn't matter. She's not going to.
- But if she did.
- She won't.
My mother isn't like you.
You want a relationship with your daughter.
She doesn't.
Hey. What's going on?
We've done great work. Important work.
Work we can be proud of.
I think so too.
I've made up my mind
about Reddington's true identity.
I'm going to tell Main Justice.
And risk having them shut us down?
As I say. we've done great work.
Does it really matter who he is?
- To the job we're doing. I mean.
- Not to me.
It will to them.
- Was there something you wanted?
- Yeah. I wanted this afternoon off.
I found a nanny. Well. I think I did.
I'm meeting with her this afternoon.
I told you before.
take whatever time you need.
About Reddington...
- You've already reached out to Main Justice?
- Yes.
- I've set a meeting with Cynthia Panabaker.
- Sir.
This just came in over SIPRNet.
Odd. right?
What's odd about it?
It was sent from an unofficial CIA outpost
in Zahedan.
You're sure this is correct?
- I decoded it myself.
- I need verification.
Fingerprints. dog tags. a photo.
whatever they can send us.
Yes. sir. But who is Daniel Hutton?
A man who died 30 years ago.
Visiting old ghosts?
I received some news today.
Daniel Hutton is alive.
Well. that's not possible.
He walked out of the mountains
of southern Iran yesterday.
Found his way to a classified CIA outpost.
Daniel Hutton is dead. Harold.
- We both know that.
- Do we?
Because it seems he's risen
like Lazarus from the grave.
Hutton is reporting he's been kept prisoner
at multiple locations
in the Middle East since 1989.
He escaped from captivity a week ago.
Asked for me by name.
CIA assets in Iran reached out directly.
They don't want anything to do with this.
He's asking for my help
to get out of the country.
or his captors
will hunt him down and kill him.
- Did you know? All this time?
- Did I know what?
That he's alive?
While you held this over my head.
I gave you that so you could put
the whole incident behind you.
not carry it like an albatross
around your neck.
I believed. as you believed.
that the man was dead.
and that the issue of what happened
in Kuwait was resolved.
I won't look the other way again.
I carried this secret for way too long.
I have to do something.
I suggest the utmost discretion.
to preserve flexibility.
What do you mean. flexibility?
It's Iran. Harold.
We can't just stroll through the front door.
We don't know what we're walking into.
So we keep it small.
No team. Just you and I.
Until you look this man in the eye.
until you know for sure what you plan to do.
- I plan to do the right thing.
- We'll soon find out. won't we?
It happened fast.
I remember Lieutenant Hutton getting hit.
I remember radioing and returning fire.
But they were everywhere.
I tried to keep him safe.
but next thing I knew...
they had taken him.
He was gone.
Your actions were commendable.
Lieutenant Cooper.
but I have to ask you about reports
that you and Lieutenant Hutton
were seen arguing prior to these events.
- That never happened.
- What never happened?
That you had words
or that they were argumentative?
- What are you doing?
- These are supposed to be med supplies.
- Close the crate.
- Where's this going?
Who are you funding? Is it the Kurds?
You're smuggling cash
to Iraq to fund rebels?
- I said. close the crate.
- We're here to stabilise this region.
not bankroll some private. dirty little war.
Dan. I'm warning you. just close the crate.
I forgot how handsome you were
back then. Harold.
And how loosely tethered to the facts.
You're one to talk about facts.
Aren't you. Mr Koslov?
So Elizabeth finally told you.
She took longer than I thought she would.
Once word was out.
I figured I was on borrowed time.
And I'm sure. knowing you as I do.
that you'll feel an obligation
to report this to the powers that be.
I don't see a way around it.
If you do that.
they'll take the task force away from you.
- It'll be the end of what you've built.
- I'm sorry. It's my duty.
Well. we're not finished just yet. are we?
You must admit. though. it's ironic.
Us jetting over there to protect your secret
and you refusing to protect mine.
We're not protecting anything.
We're righting what was wrong.
Keep telling yourself that.
How do you even know about Hutton?
The real Reddington was there.
He was part of an oversight panel
and testified about it later.
but you're not him.
How do you know anything about it
if you weren't there?
I know because...
I know.
Because whoever I once was. I am now.
and will continue to be. Raymond Reddington.
Given where we're going.
the real question is. who are you?
Are you the man in front of me.
who I know to be good and decent?
Or are you the man from years ago
who got himself into this mess
in the first place?
We'll be arriving shortly.
Farhad will meet us at the airstrip.
Do you think Hutton knows?
Do you think he has any idea what part
you played in what happened back then?
I don't think so.
Otherwise. he wouldn't have asked for me.
Let's hope not.
Because if he does hold you responsible
and if he plans to tell the world.
then we'll have to shut him up.
- I'm not gonna do that.
- No. I know.
I guess that's why I'm here.
- I can work pretty crazy hours.
- Oh. that's fine.
Some weekends.
- Some travelling.
- Honestly. whatever you need.
If it helps. I can stay here when
you're gone so Agnes can keep her routine.
I spoke to some of your references.
Is it true that
you watched their kids and cooked?
Yes. I love to cook.
Oh. good. Because on my best day.
the best I can do is peanut butter
and jelly and tuna fish.
You're busy.
Myjob is to put time into areas you can't.
You have no idea how much I need that.
How much Agnes needs it.
I'd be lucky to do it.
Great. When can you start?
Farhad! You son of a cur.
It's been an awfully long time.
You look good. my friend. And prosperous.
May Khodah in his infinite wisdom
keep the sanctions in place
for as long as possible.
Of course you remember Dembe.
This is the associate of mine
we spoke about.
You violated sanctions on Iran?
Sanctions have caused a certain amount
of investment in Iran to dry up.
It's a barren garden.
- I decided to water it.
- At a healthy interest rate.
It's all the rage.
Despite my associate's
reflexive flag-waving.
he's a fine man in need of careful guidance
in and out of this CIA outpost
everyone pretends to know nothing about.
I've made the arrangements as discussed.
One of my best men to drive you
and a backup vehicle for protection.
This close to the border.
there are checkpoints all over the place.
They can be tricky.
Fortunately. the right bribes can get a man
where he needs to go.
I'll have a double Scotch waiting for you
when you get back.
You're not coming?
I've made a lot of trouble in Iran
through the years.
Best not to have a sore thumb sticking out.
When we get to the checkpoint. don't speak.
Don't draw attention.
Just look out the windshield at the view.
They'll forget me the moment they see me.
These dog tags
were the only thing he had on him.
- You have a release?
- You kidding?
We don't exist.
We didn't invite this guy here.
and we sure as hell
don't want him found here.
He's your problem now.
Hutton?
Harold? Hey. is it really you?
It's me. Dan.
I've dreamt of this moment so many times.
I can't believe I'm looking at you.
I went to your funeral.
How did you survive?
I don't know.
They tortured me for...
I don't know how long.
Traded me. sold me for intel.
different factions.
Do you remember anyone who had you?
Even for a short time?
There was an Iranian.
They called him the Simoon.
Everyone in the intelligence community
has heard of him.
He's been a dangerous intel leak
in the Middle East for years.
Name means "poison wind."
Everywhere he goes. people die.
The intel he's given to terrorist cells
has led to armed embassy raids in Pakistan.
a consulate bombing in Syria.
the death of countless U.S. citizens.
Dan. it's a miracle you're alive.
It's a miracle we're both alive.
I remember that day in Kuwait.
How did you survive that?
I'm not sure.
But you did. thank God.
Harold. the last time I saw you...
I want to apologise.
That's behind us now.
I was young.
- What you saw was none of your business.
- It's too late. I went to the captain.
I won't be an accomplice
to whatever you're involved with.
Told him everything I saw.
- Told him about the money?
- Did what I had to.
- You didn't leave me a choice!
- You had a choice. do what I told you to do.
- Leave it alone.
- I don't take my orders from you.
You have no idea how much worse
you've made this.
Is that some sort of threat?
- I'm hit! Oh. God! I'm hit!
- Hold on!
It all seems so unimportant now.
But I knew. sitting in captivity.
despite what I did...
that you would come back for me.
You would never abandon me.
Because you're honourable.
That's what sustained me.
That if Harold Cooper
survived that firefight.
he would come back for me. no matter what.
Minesweep. This is Minesweep One.
We are under attack. Heavy fire.
This is Lieutenant Harold Cooper.
Minesweeper One. We are under attack.
So when I finally escaped
and I knew enough to get myself here.
I also knew there was only one person
that I could reach out to.
one person who would stop at nothing
to get me the rest of the way home.
And here you are to rescue me.
Dan. I'm gonna get you home.
Thank you. my friend.
Thank you.
I taste a bit of allspice.
You're right. for arthritis and libido.
Whoever your friend's package is.
I assume the outpost
wants to get rid of him.
I would assume as much.
But I'm sure the Revolutionary Guard
would like to have him.
They'll find him sooner or later.
Time. for now. is on our side.
I think we may have a situation.
- Have you heard from Harold?
- No.
But our scouts say the route
between him and the airstrip
is suddenly swarming with patrols.
- Trouble?
- How many extra men can you bring?
I'm paying 3000 a man now. I'll double it.
- I need men who can shoot straight.
- I'll make the call.
Harold. Are you on your way?
Not quite. I've spoken with Hutton.
there's been a development.
What kind?
Hutton told me the last person who held him
in captivity is a man known as the Simoon.
- Get the hell out of there right now.
- Why? What do you know?
The roads are swarming with patrols.
which means the Simoon
is already on the scent.
You need to get back to the airstrip
as fast as you can.
We'll have the engines running.
He's mobilised to find Hutton?
And he'll burn the city to find him.
I'm bringing on extra men.
We'll lock down the landing field.
You just get yourself there in one piece.
and I'll get us airborne.
We could be there in 30 minutes.
Thirty minutes. Go. now. That gives you 15.
Notify your men.
Tell them to expect a fight.
It's gonna be a hell of a lot more difficult
getting out of town than it was getting in.
- Denora Mejia?
- Yes?
Agent Kevin Thompson. This is Agent Ritter.
Can we talk?
It's about Elizabeth Keen.
- I don't understand.
- But you're familiar with Reddington?
- What does that have to do with...
- Have you heard of him?
- Of course. He's a wanted fugitive.
- He's also Keen's father.
Open it.
That man is one of our agents.
He's staking out Keen's building.
Four years ago. Reddington and Keen
went on the run together.
- She was on the FBI's Most Wanted List.
- It says here her name is Masha Rostova.
It also says she's the daughter
of a KGB agent.
A notorious KGB agent
named Katarina Rostova.
The agent out front. he's not looking
for Reddington. He's looking for her.
As bad as he is. Rostova's worse.
The child you're being asked to care for
is their granddaughter.
They're in Keen's life. and if you
take this job. they'll be in yours as well.
Right.
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to put anyone in danger.
We'll make it. Dan.
- Twenty minutes. and we're in the air.
- Yeah.
All seems too familiar.
- Long ride. hostile territory.
- Try and relax.
I can't go back. Harold.
Not another hole in the ground.
You're not going back.
Yeah. well. this guy. the Simoon...
if he comes after us.
maybe he can take you this time instead.
You answered the phone.
so you're still alive. Where are you?
We're approaching the checkpoint. Hang on.
Hi. how are you?
That's for both vehicles.
You're together?
Yes. and in a hurry.
I don't like this.
What's wrong?
The policeman at the checkpoint.
he's carrying an HK416.
That's pretty new. And expensive.
- Too expensive for police.
- Harold. you need to get out of there now.
- We got a problem.
- Harold.
Harold. talk to me.
- What happened?
- Get the Post Office on the phone.
Harold?
Tell them I work for
the United States government. The FBI.
- We're here on official business.
- They know who you are. Harold.
- How could they possibly know that?
- Because I told them.
Looks like the Simoon
wants a word with you after all.
- Anything?
- Nothing. But Aram's on with Reddington now.
Got eyes on the checkpoint.
The last thing I heard was men
yelling in Farsi. and lots of it.
And that was 13 minutes ago.
And if Harold was taken.
they may have put him in another vehicle.
This is about the SIPRNet cable.
Daniel Hutton.
Got it.
Looks like they shoved him
into a blue sedan.
Tracking from there. they headed northwest.
Made their way to what looks like some kind
of old palace or estate outside Zahedan.
We should call the State Department.
- No. there's no time for that.
- They can start back-channel negotiations.
- I can do better.
- Better than the State Department?
Way better. And more importantly. faster.
We have one chance to get Harold out alive.
so listen carefully.
How quickly fates change.
- Isn't that right. Harold?
- What have you done?
What I had to do to survive.
Do you know how many different groups
held me over the years?
The Kurds. the Iranians.
Couldn't keep track after a while.
Tell me. how easy was it to sell me out?
- I never did that.
- You left me for dead
because I found out you were
illegally funding those same Kurds.
- That is not what happened.
- Because I blew the whistle.
I had no idea we were gonna be ambushed.
I heard you got the Navy Cross
for your bravery that day.
But we know what really happened. don't we?
This is Minesweeper One.
Lieutenant Harold Cooper.
We are under attack.
Hold on. Hutton. Hold on!
But we weren't ambushed. were we?
Your Kurdish pals came for me. not you.
Get your hands off me! Harold!
Cooper!
Cooper! Cooper! Cooper!
They traded me.
Sold me to their enemies to fund their war.
Everyone may think
that you would never leave a brother to die.
but I know you'd never think twice.
You can believe what you want.
But I didn't plan the ambush.
and I wanted to go after you.
Then why didn't you?
- Was the ambush your idea?
- Mind your tone.
Was Hutton captured to keep our secret?
- He threatened to expose the mission.
- Get me back to Kuwait.
Lieutenant Hutton was executed
by Kurdish rebels an hour ago.
You survived an ambush.
Fought valiantly.
I'm going to recommend you
for the Navy Cross.
That'll put you on the fast track. Harold.
Any job you want.
Or you can raise a stink
and throw it all away.
Either way. Hutton's still gonna be dead
and the cash flow continues.
You had him executed.
I followed orders.
And if you're as smart as I think you are.
you will too.
You were a traitor treated like a patriot.
I was a patriot treated like a traitor.
So that's what I became.
It's you. You're the Simoon.
Pleasure to meet you.
- Do you know how to get to the White House?
- Sure.
Spend a lot of money.
Good to know Reddington
hasn't lost his sense of humour.
- I'm Ressler.
- Campbell.
- You know what we're supposed to do now?
- Yeah. Find the Dungeon Master.
- Didn't you see the sign?
- Yeah. It said "open."
- Well. we're not.
- Well. you are to us.
Mr Homan said so.
What the hell is this thing?
It's not a PlayStation. pal.
Let's see the case.
Two hundred thousand.
And a set of coordinates. Mr Homan
said you'd know what to do with them.
I do. Okay.
Let's get the party started.
I know what to do. Thank you very much.
- What did we just pay for?
- No idea.
And with Reddington. it's pointless to ask.
So you work for him? Reddington?
No. but he certainly thinks so.
Yeah. It's done. Whatever it is.
Splendid. Please thank Francesca for me.
And trust that as far as
Harold is concerned.
we are now in the gifted hands of a master.
Time to storm the castle.
It's a heavily armed compound.
There's only five of us.
You're right. Even the Magnificent Seven
had seven.
Slim chance of survival.
Impossible odds. This will be fun.
How could you do it?
The intel you gave Iran cost people's lives.
I held out for years.
Through beatings. in solitary. in cages.
And I realised no one was coming.
How could I do it?
Harold...
how could you?
- You gave them access to naval intelligence.
- I did.
Then they upgraded the network.
and I got shut out.
After that. I interpreted data.
It was easy when I knew the players.
That gave me value.
But now the only player I know is you.
which is why you're here.
I won't cooperate with them.
- Because it's the wrong thing to do.
- The wrong thing.
You certainly know all about that.
By text. Not by phone.
She quit via text.
That's unbelievable.
I know. I thought she was perfect.
- What are you gonna do?
- That's why I'm calling.
I am stuck at work
and Agnes is gonna be home soon.
- I'm happy to help.
- I'm so sorry about this.
Don't be silly.
I'd love to look after Agnes.
Really? Are you sure?
Of course. Take your time.
The longer you stay at the office.
the more time I'll have to spoil her rotten.
Thank you. You're a lifesaver.
I don't know what happened.
Don't beat yourself up.
Sometimes people just aren't
who they seem to be.
No way we are getting in there.
Where's your faith?
Left my faith on the jet.
Let's go back and get it.
- We breach in two minutes.
- Raymond. even with help...
- It will be a bloodbath.
- Yes. but not our blood.
So many of my prisoners. during torture.
they break down.
Beg for mercy.
But not you. Right. Harold?
Remember those cages I said they kept me in
those first few years?
You're in one.
I'll check back on you in a few decades.
For what it's worth. Dan...
I am sorry.
- Twenty seconds.
- This is a death sentence.
Farhad. you and your men to the south.
- Dembe. you and I to the north.
- They will kill us all.
Ready on your go.
- We are not ready. I am not.
- Ten. nine. eight...
- What the hell?
- Here we go.
I won a rather high-stakes game
of Magic: The Gathering recently.
and I've called in my chits.
Wait. listen to this.
Listen.
That's our cue. fellas. Let's go.
Not another step.
Looks like you have
better friends than I did.
At least they tried to save you.
Raymond. I'm out of ammo.
Come out! Come out now.
You're outgunned!
Show us your hands!
Red!
What took you so long?
It's over. Dan.
No.
I won't let you leave me behind again.
If I can't trade you to the Iranians.
I'll trade you to your own people
for a way out.
Harold! Help me!
Please. help me. Harold. Please.
Harold. please.
Cooper!
I'm sorry.
Harold. you should've learned
your lesson the first time.
Harold. are you okay?
I couldn't leave him again.
We have to go.
He isn't your burden anymore.
Isn't he?
What is it you need. Harold?
A reminder that you're a good man?
A moral man? You didn't need
to save Daniel Hutton to know that.
You just needed to look in a mirror.
What I did to him
has followed me half my life.
It's time to let it go.
Now. come on. We need to move.
You did what you thought was right.
Put your safety on the line
for a man you thought was your friend.
He betrayed you. and now he's dead.
Your secret is safe.
If there was ever a reason to celebrate.
the Simoon is finished.
You helped yourself and your country.
Close the book. Raise a glass.
How do you do it?
Wake up each morning content to live a lie?
How do you put on a face for the world?
I don't live a lie.
I may once have had another identity.
but that identity no longer exists.
I am exactly who I am.
And I can assure you.
I'm a far more interesting
Raymond Reddington
than Raymond Reddington ever was.
And what about Ilya Koslov?
I've always believed who you are
should define you. not who you were.
And I don't know anyone
that should be more at peace
with who they are than you.
Whatever decisions you make going forward...
I hope they grant you that peace.
Do you like contests?
Because I love contests.
- What kind of contest?
- I was thinking a drawing contest.
I know you like princesses.
so I got a princess colouring book.
I bet you can't colour a whole page in.
say. five minutes.
Do you think you can?
Then that's the contest.
Take this book and these pencils
and go into your room. In five minutes.
I'll come in and see if you finished. okay?
Mr Reddington called in a drone strike
from a gaming store?
I don't know how he did it.
just that it saved my life.
Why were you there in the first place?
I mean. why go with Reddington?
Other than that he can call in
a drone strike from a gaming store.
I went with Reddington
because we have no authority in Iran.
And the reason I went was simple.
Thirty years ago. I thought a soldier
in my unit had been killed.
Daniel Hutton.
The SIPRNet cable
told you he was still alive.
Right.
I went to try and bring him home.
and in the process. he died.
That's awful. Were you two close?
We were. once.
In many ways. he was instrumental
in shaping the person I am today.
Is your mind made up about what you're
gonna tell her about Reddington's identity?
It is.
It's made up about a lot of things.
Well. isn't this like
finding four peas in a pod?
Is there a snowball's chance in hell
I'm gonna like anything y'all have to say?
I'd say definitely not.
Harold. to the Scotch.
You said you wanted
to talk about Reddington.
so talk.
Reddington is...
He's not the person you think he is.
Okay. I'll bite. Who is he?
He's a much better person
than I gave him credit for.
I. on the other hand. am not.
Harold. you're not making any sense.
What is that?
A truth I should have told a long time ago.
Okay. five minutes are up!
Ready or not. here I come!
You're giving the Navy Cross to the Simoon?
I'm putting it where it belongs.
He was a brave man.
I was a coward.
He refused to follow an illegal order.
I insisted on carrying it out.
I knew the payments weren't authorised.
that someone up the chain of command
was breaking the rules.
They were higher on that chain than I was.
so I didn't ask any questions.
And I didn't stand with Hutton when he did.
I left him behind.
You were told he was dead.
I should've gone back to look for him.
found him.
But I didn't.
And that turned him into the Simoon.
The Daniel Hutton I left behind that day
deserves this.
If it had been you.
you never would have betrayed your country.
He tried speaking truth to power.
and the powerful punished him for it
and rewarded me for letting them.
I gave Panabaker the flash drive.
That won't wipe his slate clean.
I didn't do it for him. I did it for me.
And I have you to thank for that.
You told me that people should be defined
by who they are. not by who they were.
The cover-up. the medal.
they represent who I was.
A man willing to look the other way.
Who I am. who I hope to be. is someone
who takes responsibility for his actions.
So you're a truth-teller now.
Did you tell Panabaker the truth about me?
I did.
I told her your true identity.
Who you are. not who you were.
I told her you're Raymond Reddington.
I love it. More importantly. Agnes loves it.
- We had fun.
- You really saved me today.
- I told you before. I'm happy to help.
- I still can't believe Denora bailed on me.
You'll find the right person.
But until you do.
you can always count on me.
I think I'll be counting on you a lot.
- Fun times with the urchin?
- Productive times.
What am I looking for?
Second photo. top of the page.
Ilya Koslov. Who's he?
The one person who can tell me
what I need to know.